A backhand volley is a shot that is hit before the incoming ball lands and is hit on the player’s non-dominant side. 

KEY CHECKPOINTS:
Grip: holding the continental, aka hammer grip with the dominant hand at the bottom of the grip. The non-dominant hand holding the racket by its throat. 
Preparation: unit turn with both arms, chest should be facing towards the player’s non-dominant side of the court, racket by the side of the player’s head and non dominant hand on the throat of the racket. 
Swing until contact: swing the racket directly to the ball. Typically, the racket face should face upwards to the sky, unless the player is swinging downwards at the volley. As the swing goes towards the ball, the non-dominant hand should extend out backwards. Unlike a topspin backhand, we do not need to “brush” the ball on the volley
Contact: most of the time, during contact with the ball, the racket should be facing somewhat upwards. The contact point should be in front of the player’s hips preferably with the hitting elbow away from the player’s body. 
Follow through: there should be a small follow through after contact. The player should feel themselves smoothly guiding the follow through as opposed to accelerating. And the racket face should mostly face upwards on the follow through, unless the player had to swing downwards at the volley. Racket should not be swung across the body to finish the shot. 
Footwork: when able to, it is preferred to step with a backhand volley. Which foot steps and the direction of the step will depend on the incoming shot. When the player has time to move forwards to play the volley they will step forwards and across with his dominant side foot when swinging at the volley. All other variations and combinations can work depending on the situation. 

COMMON MISTAKES:
Hitting the ball too flat or in the net: normally caused by the racket face at contact being too closed off and not pointing enough to the sky. This can also be caused by the swing going downwards too much. 
Fix: open the racket face up at contact more for a higher ball flight path. And adjusting the swing motion based on the height of contact. 
Hitting the ball out in terms of length: normally caused by overswinging and/or not adjusting the racket face for contact point. 
Fix: keep the volley swing compact and not swinging across the body. People also swing too hard, so slow the swing speed down. Depending on the volley, some may need to open or close the racket face more at contact. 
Hitting the ball out in terms of width: caused by the player contacting the ball too early or late and/or hitting the ball at an extreme angle. 
Fix: Keeping the racket face at contact point facing towards the targeted spot on court. And try to find a contact point not too early and not too late. 
Late contact with the ball: when the ball flies past the hip before contact point. The player would feel like they are making contact very close to their body and their hitting elbow very close to the body at contact. 
Fix: prepare the arms as soon as the player sees the ball fly towards their backhand and think about making contact as early as you can. And taking a step when swinging the volley will help as well. 
Mishitting the ball: when the ball hits the player’s racket frame instead of the strings. 
Fix: tracking the ball all the way to the contact point. The player should also give themself sufficient space between the contact point. Keep their head still and volley through the ball. 

