The backhand is a shot hit on the player’s non-dominant side of their body. For a left-handed player, the shot is hit on the right side and vice versa. It is typically hit with two hands, but one hand is also used too. 

KEY CHECKPOINTS:
Grip: the dominant hand should be on the bottom of the racket grip, with the non-dominant hand right above it. The dominant hand should be holding the racket like a hammer called the continental or hammer grip and the non-dominant hand should be holding the grip like a handshake. 
Preparation: Requires a unit turn of the upper body where the dominant shoulder is under the player's chin, chest face to the non-dominant side of the court. The non-dominant elbow should be away from the body with space in the armpit and the racket should be tilting upwards to the sky. It is very important to keep the dominant wrist grip loose and the non-dominant wrist grip firm through the backhand.
The racket swing until contact point: let the racket drop and push the non-dominant side’s hope towards the ball. The hip push should lead the racket towards the ball to make contact. It is important to keep the same grip tensions as preparing to creating what’s called the ‘wrist lag’.
Contact point: the contact point should have the racket face facing either straight to the ball or slightly closed downwards. It should not face upwards to the sky at all. Ideally the contact point should be in front of the body, with the non-dominant arm’s elbow away from the body.
Follow through: After contact, the non-dominant arm should be extended out towards where the player is aiming and eventually wrap around the dominant side of the body. The non-dominant elbow should finish towards the centre line of the body and away from it. The player will also want the racket to finish above their dominant shoulder, and not directly touching it.

COMMON MISTAKES:
Hitting the ball too flat or in the net: normally caused by the swing path being too horizontal or flat. 
Fix: when dropping the racket, think about dropping the non-dominant hand below the height of the ball to ensure the swing starts at a low enough point. 
Hitting the ball out in terms of length: normally caused by the racket face at contact facing the sky, and/or not completing the follow through. 
Fix: hit and brush over the ball while following through correctly.
Hitting the ball out in terms of width: caused by the player throwing their body around at contact and/or hitting the ball at an extreme angle. 
Fix: keeping the chest straight on with the ball at contact and think about the racket face should face where the player is aiming at contact. 
Late contact with the ball: when the ball flies past the hip before contact. The player would feel like they are making contact very close to their body. 
Fix: prepare the arms as soon as the player sees the ball fly towards their backhand and begin pushing the hip earlier.
Mishitting the ball: when the ball hits the player’s racket frame instead of the strings. 
Fix: tracking the ball all the way to contact and watching the racket make contact with the ball. Keep the head and chest still at contact and hit through the ball.
