The forehand needs to involve making the ball spin forwards, also known as topspin. Without topspin, it is more difficult to hit the ball measurably without losing control. The forehand is hit on the player’s dominant side of the body, for example a right handed player’s forehand is hit on the right side of the player’s body. It can be hit with two hands, but it is suggested to use one for the vast majority of the time. 
There are 3 main ways of holding the racket grip for a forehand: eastern, semi-western, and western grip. Most players use the semi-western grip for the best of both worlds. 

KEY CHECKPOINTS:
Grip: Semi-western for most players. Hold the grip palm down, pretending to flip on egg on a pan.
Preparation: Non-dominant shoulder under player’s chin, non-dominant arm extended out to the side, chest face the side, racket points up to the sky, and dominant arm’s elbow away from the body with space in the armpit.
The racket swing until contact point: let the racket drop down and push the dominant side’s hip towards the ball. The hip push should lead the racket arm towards the ball to make contact. As the racket swings towards the non-dominant arm should pull itself towards the body and finish on the players chest.
Contact point: the contact point should have the racket face facing either straight to the ball or slightly closed downwards. It should not face upwards to the sky at all. Ideally the contact point should be in front of the body, with the dominant arm’s elbow away from the body.
Follow through: After contact, the racket arm should be extended out towards where the player is aiming and eventually wrap around the non-dominant side of the body. The follow through should have the racket face that made contact with the ball, facing the non-dominant side of the player. For example, the racket face should finish facing to the left side of a right handed player. The dominant elbow should finish towards the centre line of the body and away from it. The height of where the follow through finishes depends on how much spin and arc is wanted of the shot. Lower finish means less arc and spin, higher finish means more arc and spin. 

COMMON MISTAKES:
Hitting the ball too flat or in the net: normally caused by the swing path being too horizontal or flat. Fix: when dropping the racket, think about dropping the dominant hand below the height of the ball to ensure the swing starts at a low enough point. 
Hitting the ball out in terms of length: normally caused by the racket face at contact facing the sky, and/or not completing the follow through. Fix: hit and brush over the ball while following through.
Hitting the ball out in terms of width: caused by the player throwing their body around at contact and/or hitting the ball at an extreme angle. Fix: keeping the chest straight on with the ball at contact and think about the racket face should face where the player is aiming at contact. 
Late contact with the ball: when the ball flies past the hip before contact. The player would feel like they are making contact very close to their body. Fix: prepare the arms as soon as the player sees the ball fly towards their forehand and begin pushing the hip earlier. 
Mishitting the ball: when the ball hits the player’s racket frame instead of the strings. Fix: tracking the ball all the way to contact and watching the racket make contact with the ball. Keep the head and chest still at contact and hit through the ball.