A forehand slice is a shot that is hit on the player’s dominant side after one bounce. Unlike a topspin forehand, a slice forehand aims to cause the ball to spin sideways or backwards. 

KEY CHECKPOINTS:
Grip: holding the continental, aka hammer grip with the dominant hand at the bottom of the grip. 
Preparation: unit turn with both arms, chest should be facing towards the player’s dominant side of the court, racket up by the side of the player’s head and non-dominant hand by the throat of the racket. 
Swing until contact: swing the racket towards the ball. In many instances, the swing will involve dropping underneath the ball but not always. Unlike a topspin forehand, we do not need to “brush” the ball on the volley. 
Contact: most of the time, during contact with the ball, the racket should be facing somewhat upwards. The contact point should be in front of the player’s hips preferably with the hitting elbow away from the player’s body. 
Follow through: there should be a follow through after contact. And the racket face should mostly face upwards on the follow through. Racket should not be swung across the body to finish the shot. The length of the follow through will depend on what the player wishes to achieve with the shot in terms of length, spin, and speed. 

COMMON MISTAKES:
Hitting the ball too flat or in the net: normally caused by the racket face at contact being too closed off and not pointing enough to the sky. Can also be caused by not dropping the racket underneath the ball enough prior to contact. 
Fix: open the racket face up at contact more for a higher ball flight path. And adjusting the swing motion based on the height of contact. 
Hitting the ball out in terms of length: normally caused by overswinging and/or not adjusting the racket face for contact point. 
Fix: players sometimes simply swing too hard, so a quick fix will be to simply slow down the swing and not accelerate as much. Depending on the volley, some may need to open or close the racket face more at contact. 
Hitting the ball out in terms of width: caused by the player contacting the ball too early or late and/or hitting the ball at an extreme angle. 
Fix: Keeping the racket face at contact point facing towards the targeted spot on court. And try to find a contact point not too early and not too late. 
Late contact with the ball: Late contact with the ball: when the ball flies past the hip before contact point. The player would feel like they are making contact very close to their body and their hitting elbow very close to the body at contact. 
Fix: prepare the arms as soon as the player sees the ball fly towards their forehand and think about making contact as early as you can.
Mishitting the ball: when the ball hits the player’s racket frame instead of the strings. 
Fix: tracking the ball all the way to the contact point. The player should also give themself sufficient space between the contact point. Keep their head still and swing through the ball. 
