The forehand return of serve is the shot hit off the opponents serve. It is hit on the player’s dominant side after one bounce. 

KEY CHECKPOINTS FOR TOPSPIN FOREHAND RETURN OF SERVE:
Grip: Semi-western for most players. Hold the grip palm down, pretending to flip on egg on a pan
Preparation: Since we have a lot less time on the return of serve, the preparation should be abbreviated. Still aim to have a unit turn, but think of only performing 50% of the normal forehand take back. 
Swing to contact point: let the racket drop down and swing towards the ball. As the racket swings towards the ball, the non-dominant arm should pull itself towards the body and finish on the players chest 
Contact point: the contact point should have the racket face facing either straight to the ball or slightly closed downwards. It should not face upwards to the sky at all. Ideally the contact point should be in front of the body, with the dominant arm’s elbow away from the body
Follow through: After contact, the racket arm should be extended out towards where the player is aiming and eventually wrap around the non-dominant side of the body. The follow through should have the racket face that made contact with the ball, facing the non-dominant side of the player. For example, the racket face should finish facing to the left side of a right handed player. The dominant elbow should finish towards the centre line of the body and away from it. The height of where the follow through finishes depends on how much spin and arc is wanted of the shot. Lower finish means less arc and spin, higher finish means more arc and spin. 
Footwork: the player should be split stepping before hitting the return of serve. This involves a small jump right before the opponent makes contact with the ball. The player should aim to land the same time as the opponent makes contact. This way the player is able to be balanced and ready to return serves on both sides of their body. The first step after the split step includes stepping the same side foot outwards. The second step should be a bigger step going across and forwards with the other foot. As that step lands, contact should be made with the ball. And the third step involves a balancing step going outside with the same side foot. Overall, the entire movement should involve moving diagonally forwards to the shot. The player should end with the dominant side foot in line or in front of the non-dominant side foot. 

COMMON MISTAKES FOR TOPSPIN FOREHAND RETURN OF SERVE:
Hitting the ball too flat or in the net: normally caused by the swing path being too horizontal or flat. 
Fix: when dropping the racket, think about dropping the hand below the height of the ball to ensure the swing starts at a low enough point. 
Hitting the ball out in terms of length: normally caused by the racket face at contact facing the sky, and/or not completing the follow through. 
Fix: hit and brush over the ball while following through 
Hitting the ball out in terms of width: caused by the player throwing their body around at contact and/or hitting the ball at an extreme angle. 
Fix: keeping the chest straight on with the ball at contact and think about the racket face should face where the player is aiming at contact. 
Late contact with the ball: when the ball flies past the hip before contact. The player would feel like they are making contact very close to their body. 
Fix: prepare the arms as soon as the player sees the ball fly towards their forehand and begin the swing earlier. Ensure a smaller preparation for the return of serve. 
Mishitting the ball: when the ball hits the player’s racket frame instead of the strings. 
Fix: tracking the ball all the way to contact and watching the racket make contact with the ball. Keep the head and chest still at contact and hit through the ball. Another great cue is to keep the chest side on for longer during contact. This prevents the player from throwing their torso at contact, which frequently leads to mishitting the ball.
