The movement in tennis has many many layers to it. There should be reason behind the way a player moves on the tennis court and the reason will depend on numerous aspects. 

Prioritising speed versus balance:
Movement prioritising speed will involve more cross over steps than shuffle steps. And movement prioritising balance will involve more shuffle steps than cross overs. This is due to the direction the player’s hip is facing. Shuffle steps maintain the players hips to face the opponent’s side, providing more balance and readiness to change direction if needed. Cross over steps brings more speed but jeopardises balance. It is important to use both types of movement, and understanding when to use what. 

Output shot direction:
Output shot is cross court: typcially allows the player to recover less to the middle. This is because players play more cross courts due to its safety and it also can tempt the opponent to hit down the line, which is a higher risk shot to draw an error. 
Output shot is middle: typically allows the player to recover less to the middle, but normally more than when the output shot is cross court. 
Output shot is down the line: the player typically recovers more to the middle with more urgency. Since we know players play more cross court, after we go down the line, we leave the opponent’s cross court shot of our court exposed. Meaning they can hit into our open space while not taking much risk. 

Output shot quality:
When the output shot quality is attackable by the opponent, the player should look to move backwards and get ready to scramble on defence. How much backwards the player should move will depend on the situation, but overall moving backwards to give themself more time on defence. 
When the output shot quality is of high standard and attacks the opponent, the player should look to move forwards and ready to take on the next ball on offence. How much forwards the player should move will also depend on the situation, but overall look to gain an aggressive position for the next ball. 

Approach shot moving into volley:
After hitting the approach shot and committing to the net, the player should look to cover as much ground as possible, while ensuring a split step when the opponent makes contact with the ball. This allows the player to be balanced and ready for whatever shot comes at them.
Typcially, the player should cover more towards the direction of their approach shot, unless tactics say otherwise. 

Guesswork on Defence:
In order to turn around the momentum of the point, the player can choose to guess which side the opponent will hit to. The guessing of sides and movement should be committed right before the opponent makes contact with the ball, aiming to not show the movement too early. 
This is a very common movement especially when the player knows without guessing, they will be unable to chase to the ball in time. 

Diagonal movement to take early or take later:
Moving diagonally forwards can allow players to take a ball on early. This takes time away from the opponent and allows the player to take a better offensive position. 
Moving diagonally backwards can provide players with more time. This allows the player to have extra time to get in position to hit a quality shot. 
