Every point in tennis starts off with a serve. It is a vast vast majority of the time hit overhead. 

KEY CHECKPOINTS:
Grip: the dominant hand should be holding a grip on the bottom of the racket grip called the continental or hammer grip while the non-dominant hand holds the ball. 
Stance: with both feet baseline, the server needs to stand to either side of the centre mark line. Start with both chest and feet pointing to the dominant-side net post. Your dominant foot should be staggered behind the other foot with its toe in line behind the non-dominant heel. 
The racket swing until trophy position: start with both hands relaxed and down your body. Raise both arms up. The non-dominant hand tosses the ball in front while the dominant arm should bring the racket and create the trophy position and the knees bend into a quarter-squat position. 
The trophy position: the trophy position is the body position of the player typically erected into a trophy. With the non-dominant arm pointing all the way up, the dominant elbow just below shoulder level, racket pointing upwards to the sky and knees bent into a quarter-squat position. 
Trophy position swing into contact: As the racket drops down the player’s spine and swings up towards the ball, the non-dominant arm should be pulled down and legs should drive the body up and off the ground.  
Contact: should be made with the entire body extended upwards, chest stays up, and dominant arm fully extended with the racket. Different ways of contact cause a different spin to occur to the ball. The player should feel a sense of pronation when serving. 
Follow through: after contact, the racket should finish down by the lower half of the non-dominant side of the body. Player should be only landing on the non-dominant foot, just inside the baseline. 

COMMON MISTAKES:
Hitting the ball in the net: caused by the body not driving upwards during the serve. 
Fix: The player should aim to keep their chest up tall at contact and chin up on the landing. 
Hitting the ball out in terms of length: caused by hitting under the ball during the serve. 
Fix: The player should aim to hit the ‘top’ of the ball at contact. This fix may involve tossing the ball higher so the racket arm can extend up.
Hitting the ball out in terms of width: caused by the player throwing their body around at contact and/or hitting the ball at an extreme angle. 
Fix: keeping the chest facing the ball at contact and the racket face should face where the player is aiming at contact. 
Mishitting the ball: when the ball hits the player’s racket frame instead of the strings. 
Fix: Keep the head and chest still at contact and facing the ball.
