A smash is also called an overhead or an overhead smash. It is a shot hit above the player’s head just like a serve, and can either be hit before the ball bounces or after one bounce. 

KEY CHECKPOINTS:
Grip: the dominant hand should be holding a grip on the bottom of the racket grip called the continental or hammer grip. 
Stance and preparation: as soon as the player recognises the opportunity to hit a overhead smash, they should begin preparing the arms and move their feet into position. Start with both chest facing the to the dominant-side. The non-dominant arm should be pointing upwards towards the ball. The dominant elbow should be positions behind the dominant shoulder, with its elbow spaced away from the body while being under shoulder height. The racket should be pointing up towards the sky. Combining all these, the player should be creating a ‘trophy position’. Optimally, the player should be in the position to step forwards into the overhead smash but won’t be able to all the time. 
Trophy position swing into contact: As the racket drops down the player’s spine and swings up towards the ball, the non-dominant arm should be pulled down. If able to, push the dominant side hip and the legs should drive the body up and off the ground.  
Contact: should be made with the entire body extended upwards, chest stays up, and dominant arm fully extended with the racket. Different ways of contact cause a different spin to occur to the ball. The player should feel a sense of pronation when hitting the overhead smash. 
Follow through: after contact, the racket should finish down by the lower half of the non-dominant side of the body. 
Footwork: for overhead smashes moving forwards, shuffle up to the ball and step the non-dominant foot in as the last step into the smash. For overhead smashes moving backwards, cross over steps and the player should jump off their dominant side foot to hit and land behind on their non-dominant side foot. 

COMMON MISTAKES:
Hitting the ball in the net: caused by the body not driving upwards during the overhead smash, or swinging downwards too much.
Fix: The player should aim to keep their chest up tall at contact and chin up at finish. And aim to swing up first at the ball. 
Hitting the ball out in terms of length: caused by hitting under the ball during the overhead smash. 
Fix: The player should aim to hit the ‘top’ of the ball at contact. This fix may involve contacting the ball higher so the racket arm can extend up.
Hitting the ball out in terms of width: caused by the player throwing their body around at contact and/or hitting the ball at an extreme angle. 
Fix: keeping the chest facing the ball at contact and the racket face should face where the player is aiming at contact. 
Mishitting the ball: when the ball hits the player’s racket frame instead of the strings. 
Fix: Keep the head and chest still at contact and facing the ball.

